#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{indentfirst}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Practicum - Lecture 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Leonid Genkin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Introduction
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal of the class is to bridge the gap between the theories studied
 in classes and the real world.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Usually there are 2 trips (TLV, London) - might be different this time because
 of COVID-19.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In a ~month there will be a schedule with ~5-7 speakers and their lectures,
 the first one being on May.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

fun
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 course, which will surprise how business people think differently from
 the theories.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Class expectations: Come to at least 5 (n-1) meetings.
 Before class a summary about the speaker is required.
 Attending a lecture means also submitting the summary (it is a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

package deal
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Someone will introduce the speaker (chosen randomly if there are no volunteers).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
