#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{indentfirst}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Finance1 - Lecture 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Leonid Genkin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Starting the next week, each lecture will start with a quiz.
 The questions will be similar to the home exercises.
 The questions will be multiple-check, for 15 minutes.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Discounted Cash Flow Valuation - Continued
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Compounding Intervals
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An annual interest rate might be compounded with a smaller interval (loan
 in a bank - paid every month).
 For example, a 8% yearly interest is actually 8.33% if compounded daily.
 The general formula is:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
FV=P(1+\frac{r}{k})^{kN}
\]

\end_inset

where 
\begin_inset Formula $k$
\end_inset

 is the number of compounding intervals per year, and 
\begin_inset Formula $N$
\end_inset

 is the number of years.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The interest which is compounded (r) is the 
\series bold
annual percentage rate
\series default
 (APR), whle the actual rate is the 
\series bold
effective annual rate
\series default
 (EAR).
 When the number of compounding intervals is infinite, the limit inside
 the parentheses is 
\begin_inset Formula $e$
\end_inset

, and the EAR is accordingly calculated.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Different Periods
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Sometimes time intervals other than year are used.
 How do we adapt the calculations? The formulas are agnostic to the intervals,
 we only need to adjust the numbers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Look at the payment schedule and figure the time interval to work with
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Calculate the interest rate for that interval (by compounfing)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Enumerate
Adjust the time periods number
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(Excel exercise 12)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Value Creation Principles & Stock Valuation
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The objectives are to highlight the principles of value creation and to
 understand investment strategies.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Example
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Investing $1M in a firm which gives $1.26M next year meand that the 
\series bold
internal rate of return (IRR)
\series default
 / ROIC (return on invested capital) is 26%.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
IRR is the opportunity cost, which would equate the NPV to 0.
 How is it possible that an investment with 26% can be made, while the bank
 interest rate is 5%? Isn't it an arbitrage? No.
 
\series bold
Anyone
\series default
 can invest in the market and get the market interest rate, but 
\series bold
only the firm
\series default
 has the capabilities.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Value Creation and NPV
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
How much does the investment opportunity in the above example worth? The
 NPV is given by the yield, discounted for present value:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
NPV=-\$1M+\$1.26M/1.05=\$0.2M
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Interpretation: The NPV is the extra yield by investing in an opportunity,
 compared to the market.
 As long as NPV is positive, we are 
\series bold
creating value
\series default
.
 Negative NPV means it's better to invest the wealth in the market rather
 than in the project.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The NPV of investing in the market is zero.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
A corporation receives money from investors and generates future cash flows.
 The difference between ROIC and 
\begin_inset Formula $r$
\end_inset

 determines whether the company creates or destroys value.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(Excel exercise)
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Value created from the investing strategy is the PV of the value created
 in all the future years (a 
\series bold
growing perpetuity
\series default
).
 The goal of the CFO is to 
\series bold
increase value
\series default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When ROIC is higher than capital cost, value is created (both by initial
 investment and future investment).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
