#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{indentfirst}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Financial Accounting 2 - Lecture 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Leonid Genkin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Ratio and Profitability Analysis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
FS #12 belongs to Fortis, as it matches the business model of a bank.
 A bank works by taking deposits from the public and using it to provide
 loans to other.
 It acts as an agent, which stands between the depositors and the borrowers.
 The large liabilities (payables) represent the deposits people have made,
 and the receivables are the loans that were given.
 The operating revenues of a bank is the interest it charges.
 The operating cost is the expense paid to the depositing customers.
 There is no inventory, and high intercorporate investment rate.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Looking at the numbers as a percentage of the revenue allows to normalize
 them, independent of the size of each firm.
 Banks do not typically own property (rent the office space), but they invest
 a lot in the information systems (it provides them competitive advantage).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
If many borrowers fail to pay, equity decreases.
 If there are many such borrowers, lenders would take their money out.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Firms can be divided to high - (#2, #9) and low-intensity (#3, #5) R&D.
 Number #2 is Sun.
 Given the fact that Sun outsources big parts of its operation, it is assumed
 to have less PP&E.
 Also, technological companies usually don't hold big inventory (products
 constantly change and become obsolete), unlike pharmaceutical companies
 (they are even sometimes requested to keep a ceratin inventory amount).
 The selling expense for #9 (Roche) is lower
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The low-intensity R&D firms are Toyota and Nestle.
 Telco firms, in most cases, would prefer to buy solutions form technological
 companies rather than make them up.
 #3 is Nestle and #5 is Toyota.
 Toyota granting credit to customers results in higher receivables.
 Intercorporate investment are typical in Asia (consortium of companies
 - e.g Hyundai).
 In case of Toyota - it invests also in some of its suppliers.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Nestle is an expensive brand, and usually cheaper alternatives (
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

supermarket brand
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

) can be found (not in Israel).
 Sometimes they are even manufactured in the same way.
 Why do people buy the more expensive brand? - Convinced by marketing.
 Thus, Nestle has high selling and administrative expense, compared to Toyota
 (which needs to only market one brand).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
#7 cannot is Interpublic Group.
 It has no inventory.
 As it is a service company, they do not have a lot of PP&E.
 The A/R and current liabilities are high.
 In order to get a deeper understanding of the A/R figure, we look at the
 A/R 
\series bold
turnover ratio
\series default
.
 In case of firm #7 it is given by:
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
\frac{100\%}{81.1\%}=1.23\Rightarrow Days=\frac{365}{1.23}=\sim297\,days
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
An interesting observation is that firms with zero/low inventory have high
 PP&E.
 Distinguishing between them and matching correcly is tricky.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Dividing the PP&E cost by the depreciation expense, we can estimate its
 effective life span.
 Power companies typically come up with a long-term business plan.
 #10 is Deutsche Telekom, and #8 is Accor (not all hotels are owned by them).
 Telecommunications is capital intensive industry
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
#6 is Arbed-Acier.
 Is has big inventory (having so for food copmany won't make sense) and
 high PP&E number (which implies a manufacturing firm).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
#1 is Carrefour and #4 is Marks & Spencer.
 As they have their own credit cards, they have higher A/R and PP&E (investment
 in stores).
 Carrefour has lower profit margin (they sell 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

everything
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 and people buy more) and spend less on customer service.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
