#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{indentfirst}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Financial Accounting 2 - Tutorial 4
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Leonid Genkin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Inventory
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Inventory can be either produced internally or purchased, in any way in
 has costs.
 According to the matching principle, the COGS is recognized in the I/S
 when a sale has been made.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Calculating the sales is relatively easy, while the COGS is tricker and
 can be done in different methods.
 The most popular today is FIFO, but sometimes the average cost or LIFO
 are used as well.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The choice of the method has impact not only on the COGS, but also on the
 remaining inventory value.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Usually companies choose the method not only according to their predictions
 of the market, but also by the actual packing of the inventory (e.g expiry
 date).
 It is changed only for a good reason.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Inventory CLM
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When publishing a B/S, a firm has to look at its inventory and compare its
 cost to the actual market price.
 The reported number should be the lower of the inventory cost in books
 and its market value.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In case the market value is lower than the cost in books, a write down must
 be made.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
