#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{indentfirst}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Finance 2 - Lecture 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Leonid Genkin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Investment
\series default
 decisions (whether to invest in a particular project) must be distinguished
 from 
\series bold
financing
\series default
 decisions (how to finance it).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Recall from finance 1: the 
\series bold
present value
\series default
 of a project is the sum of the future cash flows, discounted to the present.
 
\series bold
Depreciation
\series default
 - an accounting method of allocating the cost of an asset over its useful
 life.
 
\series bold
Working capital
\series default
 - money that has to be put aside in order to allow business operations
 (cash register, inventory, credit to customers / from suppliers).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The revenue minus COGS (cost of goods sold) and depreciation gives 
\series bold
EBIT
\series default
 (earnings before interest & tax).
 After subtracting taxes we get the 
\series bold
NOPAT
\series default
 (net operating income after tax).
 Adding back the depreciation and subtracting the working capital, we finally
 get the 
\series bold
free cash flow
\series default
 (FCF).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The 
\series bold
incremental
\series default
 CF of the project is the CF of the firm with it, compared to the CF without
 it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Taxes consist of 2 types:
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Operating taxes
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
In case there is a positive profit, the tax is on the profit: NOPAT equals
 1 - tax rate
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
When there is a negative profit:
\end_layout

\begin_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize
If there are other profitable segments - this (negative) project results
 in the reduction of taxes paid on the on the segments.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Itemize
If there are no other profitable segments (new company), the total tax is
 0, but the taxes authority would open a 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

credit account
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 which reduces future taxes.
\end_layout

\end_deeper
\end_deeper
\begin_layout Itemize

\series bold
Capital gain tax
\series default
: Consider selling a machine.
 The book value is the historical price, minus accumulated depreciation.
 Ccpital gain is the selling price minus book value.
 The liability on capital gain is the capital gain times the capital gain
 tax rate.
 Then, the CF from selling the machine is the capital gain, minus the tax.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Separator plain
\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The meaning of the 
\series bold
interest rate
\series default
 is the 
\series bold
alternative
\series default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
There are 2 types of risks for any project/firm: systematic (market) risk
 and specific risk.
 Only the former one gets compensation in the market.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal is to diversify most of the money.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
NPV=-I_{o}+\sum_{n=1}^{N}\frac{E(CF_{n})}{(1+E(r))^{n}}
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
\begin_inset Formula 
\[
PV=\sum_{n=1}^{N}\frac{E(CF_{n})}{(1+E(r))^{n}}
\]

\end_inset


\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Under the assumption that all investment is 
\series bold
equity
\series default
 investment (no debt).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
