#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{indentfirst}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Finance 2 - Homework 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Leonid Genkin, Roman Bar German, Aviel Bernstein
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Question 1
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Assume a firm won't have to service the warranties in case of a bankruptcy.
 As it is perfectly known to 
\series bold
all
\series default
 parties, potential investors know it as well, and 
\series bold
adjust their debt terms
\series default
 accordingly.
 Therefore, it will be represented in the debt terms and the firm 
\series bold
won't gain anything
\series default
 from it.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section*
Question 2
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
a.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As the value of the firm is $200M and bankruptcy costs are $40M, the debt
 holders will receive $160M in case of a bankruptcy.
 Thus, they will accept any offer that gives them at least the same amount,
 meaning the management needs to offer the creditors at least 
\begin_inset Formula $160/200=80\%$
\end_inset

 of the equity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
b.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The market value of the equity is 0, because the outstanding debt is higher
 than the value of the firm.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
c.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As the creditors now receive 
\begin_inset Formula $\$200M-\$20M=\$180M$
\end_inset

 in case of a bankruptcy, they need to be offered at least 
\begin_inset Formula $180/200=90\%$
\end_inset

 of the equity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
d.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As the creditors now receive 
\begin_inset Formula $\$220M-\$40M=\$180M$
\end_inset

 in case of a bankruptcy, they need to be offered at least 
\begin_inset Formula $180/220=81.8\%$
\end_inset

 of the equity.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection*
e.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In subsection (c) it is shown that decreasing bankruptcy costs leads to
 the creditors requiring more equity, in (d) we see that increasing the
 continuation value increases the creditors' equity, but 
\series bold
by less
\series default
 (more is left to the old equity holders, compared to (c)).
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
