#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{indentfirst}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Financial Accounting 1 - Lecture 3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Leonid Genkin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Financial Statemets - Continued
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Can there be a business scenario, when a company has losses and pays dividends,
 and it is legal & ethical? Directors would need to consider, whether this
 loss means future losses as well.
 Probably they will stop dividends to protect debt holders.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Example: IDB (paid dividends, didn't ensure there would be enough money
 to pay debt holders).
 The directors who approved that dividend were from families who enjoyed
 the dividend coming to them, which lead to a lawsuit.
 As a result, some of the dividend were settled and paid back immediately.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
When considering dividends payment, the board of directors shall consider
 all stakeholders and the future ability of the firm to pay its debts.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Home Exercise - to be completed for next time.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Example: The ABC Company
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
On May 1st the firm has $0 in cash.
 How can it find funds for the next month? Shareholders / bank loan? Should
 a bank give them a loan? The concern about the company is that it might
 not be able to pay that loan, without taking yet another loan (it only
 carse about growth, not cash).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Analyzing the balance of the firm in different months, we can see that it
 leads to producing increasing amounts of widgets (in order to accomodate
 future transactions), even before the actual sales.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The balance sheet 
\series bold
must 
\series default
be balanced - everything that is not a liability 
\series bold
is an asset
\series default
.
 The equity increases between January and February, because of 
\series bold
net income
\series default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is important to distinguish expenses from payments.
 Only the actual amount 
\series bold
used
\series default
 has to be accounted in expenses, the remaining can be in inventory.
 That is the main point of this example: we are matching revenues with examples.
 We show in the income statement the resources 
\series bold
used
\series default
 and not what was 
\series bold
paid for
\series default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The name of the expense is cost of goods 
\series bold
sold
\series default
 (not 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

manufactured
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

).
 For every sold widget, a $1 revenue is recorded and $0.75 expense.
 It doesn't matter, whether the payment comes in the present or in the future
 - the cost for generating the $1 income is at the present (accrual accounting).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consider an example: one bought huge amounts of toilet paper at the beginning
 of the COVID pandemic.
 Is that an asset? - 
\series bold
Yes
\series default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
It is very important to distinguish equity and cash, which are two different
 things.
 A change in equity can occur because of net income, issue of stock or dividend
 payment.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
After preparing the statments of the firm, we can clearly see 
\series bold
competing
\series default
 measures (decreasing cash, increasing profitability).
 According to the trend of the cash needs of the company, it is 3 months
 from becoming cash positive and 
\series bold
bringing
\series default
 cash, thus it will probably be able to pay the loan.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Based on accrual accounting, 
\series bold
profitability is more appropriate measure
\series default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
As sales increase by a constant amount, it gradually becomes smaller percentage.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
What policies can (shall) be changed by the firm? Holding a single month
 an inventory is a reasonable policy.
 The firm can try to change the price and see the effect on the demand.
 How can the firm arrange for earlier cash inflows? - Offer a cash discount
 (still provide credit to customers, otherwise they might go to competitors).
 In addition to that, in the long-run we would expect a decrease in the
 manufcaturing cost per unit (economies of scale).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Income Measurement
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Spending cash today does not make it an expense.
 The correct question to ask is: would that spending allow generating revenues
 
\series bold
today
\series default
, or 
\series bold
in the next period
\series default
? Only in the first case it should be considered as expense (revenue recognition
 & matching).
 Manufactured goods which were not sold are 
\series bold
inventory
\series default
 (an asset).
 Recall from above - 
\series bold
spending
\series default
 money on toilet paper is not an expense, only consumption is.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Mechanics of Accounting
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Accrual vs.
 Cash Basis
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Cash-based
\series default
 accounting records cash transactions and uses them as performance indications.
 Revenues / expenses are recorded when cash is received / paid.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Accrual accounting
\series default
 is more correct way - recording revenues when 
\series bold
earned
\series default
 and expenses when 
\series bold
incurred
\series default
.

\series bold
 
\series default
In practice, all publibly traded companies use this method to reflect their
 performance.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Subsection
Accrual Accounting
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The first step in the process is analyzing transactions.
 Previously we seen the various components of the financial statements -
 now it will be shown how they change as a result of transactions.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Shareholders' equity consists of 
\series bold
contributed capital
\series default
 +
\series bold
 retained earnings
\series default
.
 Retained earnings change as result of 
\series bold
net income
\series default
 (
\series bold
revenues
\series default
 minus 
\series bold
expenses
\series default
) and 
\series bold
dividenvs
\series default
.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
The goal is to go over different transactions and reflect their effect on
 the company financial statements.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Double entry bookkeeping: balance needs always to be kept and every transaction
 must change 2 items (on both sides of the balance).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
(Class exercise - spreadsheet).
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
For next lecture - review these notes, ABC company and read materials from
 the email.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
