#LyX 2.3 created this file. For more info see http://www.lyx.org/
\lyxformat 544
\begin_document
\begin_header
\save_transient_properties true
\origin unavailable
\textclass article
\begin_preamble
\usepackage{indentfirst}
\end_preamble
\use_default_options true
\maintain_unincluded_children false
\language english
\language_package default
\inputencoding auto
\fontencoding global
\font_roman "default" "default"
\font_sans "default" "default"
\font_typewriter "default" "default"
\font_math "auto" "auto"
\font_default_family default
\use_non_tex_fonts false
\font_sc false
\font_osf false
\font_sf_scale 100 100
\font_tt_scale 100 100
\use_microtype false
\use_dash_ligatures true
\graphics default
\default_output_format default
\output_sync 0
\bibtex_command default
\index_command default
\paperfontsize default
\spacing single
\use_hyperref false
\papersize default
\use_geometry true
\use_package amsmath 1
\use_package amssymb 1
\use_package cancel 1
\use_package esint 1
\use_package mathdots 1
\use_package mathtools 1
\use_package mhchem 1
\use_package stackrel 1
\use_package stmaryrd 1
\use_package undertilde 1
\cite_engine basic
\cite_engine_type default
\biblio_style plain
\use_bibtopic false
\use_indices false
\paperorientation portrait
\suppress_date false
\justification true
\use_refstyle 1
\use_minted 0
\index Index
\shortcut idx
\color #008000
\end_index
\leftmargin 2.5cm
\topmargin 2.5cm
\rightmargin 2.5cm
\bottommargin 2.5cm
\secnumdepth 3
\tocdepth 3
\paragraph_separation indent
\paragraph_indentation default
\is_math_indent 0
\math_numbering_side default
\quotes_style english
\dynamic_quotes 0
\papercolumns 1
\papersides 1
\paperpagestyle default
\tracking_changes false
\output_changes false
\html_math_output 0
\html_css_as_file 0
\html_be_strict false
\end_header

\begin_body

\begin_layout Title
Financial Accounting 1 - Tutorial 3
\end_layout

\begin_layout Author
Leonid Genkin
\end_layout

\begin_layout Section
Adjusting Journal Entries
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard

\series bold
Adjusting journal entries 
\series default
are used at the end of a term when an expense/revenue in incurred, but no
 actual payment was made.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Those accounts that were actually used up need to be adjusted.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Consider an example with a prepaid rent for the year: at the beginnig of
 the year, cash 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

becomes
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 a prepaid rent asset.
 At the year end, this asset is 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

converted
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 to rent expense.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
In case of a loan (future payment), 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

interest expense
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 - 
\begin_inset Quotes eld
\end_inset

interest payable
\begin_inset Quotes erd
\end_inset

 accounts are adjusted.
\end_layout

\begin_layout Standard
Payment is not crucial for expense recognition.
 What 
\series bold
is
\series default
 crucial is the creation and the consumption of an expense.
\end_layout

\end_body
\end_document
